In this lecture, I will explain for of
the test doubles and how mockito API
supports them starting with dummy before
we do that launch the eclipse ID have the
order processing service project ready
and open up the orderBOimpl test
double click on it to maximize it as we go
through the test doubles i will explain
how we have already used most of them in
our orderBOimpl test the very first
pattern in the test doubles is the dummy
as the name itself says these are the
objects that are passed as parameters but
are not really required for testing a
particular scenario we go to our order
BO impl the very first test here
place order should create an order when
we are stubbing out the method called
called create instead of creating an
actual order filling it in with all the
values and then passing it we are using
mockito any to create a dummy order on
the fly
mockito allows us to create dummies
using any etc so when we use a dummy
object in this scenario we don't care
about the exact object that is the
reason we can use a dummy object but
there could be scenarios where we need
to create an order instance fillin with
all the details.
The second one is stub these provide
fixed answers or return values and
will do only what we asked them to do so
we can create stubs using the when class
and by using the then return method in
mockito. mocks are little more than stubs
they can throw exceptions as well as they
allow us to verify if certain other methods
were called when we are testing a
method by now you would have guessed so
we can throw exceptions
mockito using then throw like we have
done then throw that is the mockito
API to throw exceptions and then we have
used verify to verify if certain other
methods where being called the next
test double pattern is fake as the name
itself says these are some shortcuts
like in-memory databases that are rarely
used in unit testing and spies again as
the name itself says there are stubs
that can spy or record any side effects
when we are testing a particular method
i'll explain more on spies will write a
small hands test in the next lectures
and we'll explore how we can use spies
by using the mockito API.